                   EXAM WAND
Project background/Introduction
Globally the education system has taken a big leap towards 
virtualization. Thus we have developed an app that provides an 
effortless mode of answer script evaluation.  

About the App:
It consists of a student’s interface and a teacher’s interface either of 
which can be chosen at the beginning. The student’s interface consists 
of an image picker to take the pictures of answer sheets whose words 
are extracted using Optical Character Recognition (OCR) which is 
implemented using the firebase ml toolkit. The extracted words are then 
converted into a .pdf file. We’ve also provided an option to edit the pdf 
by replacing any word in the string with a new word. The file thus 
created is sent to the teacher’s interface and each answer in an answer 
script is stored as the elements of an array of Strings. The evaluation 
process is performed using ml Text-similarity method and marks are 
provided in accordance with the percentage similarity. The ml code is 
run at the backend of a web API generated with Python using Flask and 
a request which consists of the Question-ID, name of the student, the 
corresponding answer in the array and the correct answer is sent from 
the teacher’s interface.
In the future we also intend to provide various other features like tools to 
detect plagiarism, online interactive classrooms and facility to conduct 
short tests.

Contents:
>	main.dart – It consists of an alert box to choose your designation.         
                   (Student/Teacher)
>	student.dart – The students interface.
>	teacher.dart - The teacher’s interface.
>	contents.dart – Contents of the dropdown menu.
>	create_pdf.dart – Function to create pdf.
>	User_Model.dart – json response from the API.  
>	Text_similarity.python – ML Text-Similarity code.



Ways to host the project on the Local Host
The Flutter files can be run on both Android Studio and Visual Studio.
The web API is run using Flask in Visual Studio and the response is 
obtained in the flutter app.
        

