PERSONAL VISUAL ASSISTANCE DEVICE
                     BY Team -COD-ECT-

IDEA
To help the visually impaired live a better life by creating a device that helps them navigate accurately in this
world using sensors , realtime obstacle mapping global positioning system and internet of things.

INTRODUCTION
The idea is to help the visually impaired person navigate efficiently and independently through the streets by using 
two sensors on each footwear and two obstacle detection camera on front and back. The sensors measure the length of 
each stride accurately which upon combining with GPS facility and AI will enable the person to know thier location 
and direction in real time through voice commands using the earphones. The camera warns the person of the obstacle 
by image recognition using AI . Thus device, when connected with the IOT or home appliances will enable that person
 to also handle the appliances and home using voice commands..overall, making the life of a blind person much more efficient

REQUIREMENTS
 1) 2 proximity sensors : To measure the length of each stride .
 2) infrared obstacle detection camera : To detect the presence of obstacles on the way .
 3)gps connection : To track the location of a person accurately .
 4)ear phones & smartphone : To process the data and give instructions .

PROCEDURE
Each of the footwears of the visually impaired person will be fitted with a proximity sensor each that are programmed so as to measure the 
distance between them accurately .This will help measure the length of each stride of the visually impaired person irrespective of their speed.
Two infrared obstacle detection cameras located at the front and back of the blind person will detect the presence of any obstacle 
present in the path of that person . The mobile application will collect both the datas from the proximity sensors and the 
infrared sensors. The gps module will track the exact location of the person . The mobile application will use this data 
from the gps module in combination with google maps and the sensors to create a virtual world . The image recognition algorithms
will be able to identify the obstacles present around the blind person and warn them . Since the length of each stride is accurate 
the map can guide the blind person with precision . Thus the blind person can reach the prefered destination . The maps will provide the
instructions via audio through the headset . Connecting this device to the home appliances through IOT technology will enable 
the person to handle these appliances much more efficiently , such as lights , gas stove etc.. and can control these appliances 
through voice commands . 

FUTURE SCOPE
An average eye transplantation in india costs around 2000$ or Rs 1,30,000 . Since most of the people cannot afford a transplant 
this device will provide an alternative solution . According to global statistics the availability of eyes to total number of
 patients is of the ratio of 1:70 . This lack of resource can be leveled using device .

TOTAL PRODUCTION COST
This device can be produced ath an average cost of Rs 15,000 .

CONCLUSION
This device will create ripples across the blind population and give them new hope .


THANK YOU .





 